OK so in this video we're going to be looking at the function substring.
So what do we mean by substring and my skew row.
So when we use the substring function we're actually extracting only part of a full string.
So if you see the example here we have select substring and then we have three pauls in brackets.
So we have our string which in this case is example.
Then we have two numbers.
The first number is where we start our substring.
And then the second number is the length of the substring.
So in this case our substring is going to start the first character in the string.
So a string is example and it's going to start at the third letter.
So the x is a third letter and then it's going to be a length 3.
So it's going to go a p.
So if we run this query here we should return a column which is named sub and then a value which is
I am p.
So let's run this now.
And you can see down here we have the sup column and the value returned is empty.
So this is what happens when we use the substring function.
It takes a string which we define here and then a comma and then we define the start index.
So in this case it was three so we started at the third let's say is 1 x 2 is 3.
So it starts there and then it has a length of three.
So it goes.
I am p and you see here and I've written a comment which explains that we have the substring we open
a pair of brackets.
We have our string in double quotes.
Then we have the starting index and then we have to length now the string and the starting index are
required.
We can't run the substring function without these.
But the length is actually optional.
And if you don't include that last letter what it will do is a return the substring from the starting
index all the way to the end.
So let's try it now by getting rid of the three.
So we just have the string and we just have the starting index.
And let's run that query.
And you can see it's returned the whole string starting from the third letter.
So starting from May is run all the way to the end.
So now let's look at a few examples of substring using cinema booking system say you can see here I've
selected name from films so if I just run up it returns all the films in our database the name column.
Now let's take a substring from this name column.
Let's start from the first index and return a substring of length 3.
So to do that we need to type to select substring and then open a pair of brackets and in that bracket
first we need to name a string.
So in this case is the name column is going to be all string and then the starting index.
So I said we wanted to start from the first letter.
So I thought an index is one.
And then I wanted to return a length 3.
So it's going to return the first three letters of every film and then we can use all column name alias
so let's just say name or let's call as short name saying is not the full name and then we want to type
from films.
So let's run this query and it should just return the first three letters of each film so you can see
here we have all our films with tons but only the first three letters of each film.
So now let's use the substring function to return the name field from the films table but starting from
the fifth letter and having a length of four.
So if we copy and paste
our query and just change the style from 3 to 5 from 1 to 5 sorry and our length from 3 to 4 and we
can run
and you can see it's returned all the films starting from the fifth letter and with a length of four.
So you can see the space is counted as a character.
So you can see here we have a space you
and we have two E-Space I used that must be Blade Runner and Blade Runner 20 14:9 and we use our space.
I saw one we.
CONAN Yeah.
So carry on counts as a character and then a space then.
All right.
And so on and so on.
Now we can also define our starting index as a negative number and what that will do is rather than
counting the index from the first letter is going to start from the end is going to start and they see
as minus 1 and then it's going to come back minus one minus two minus three minutes for example et cetera.
So let's run a substring.
But with a negative starting index say let's just copy and paste a substring query again and let's change
this five to a negative 2 and then let's have a length of two.
So this should return the last two letters of every single film in the database in the films table.
So you can see here we have a R which must have been Blade Runner and they started up the second last
letter say minus two the second last letter and is returned a string of length 2.
So we have a r.
And then we have Blade Runner 2049 so has just returned the last two letters and so on and so on.
So this starting index can also be a negative number.
So let's run one final example of our substring query.
Let's run a suffering.
Let's keep starting in this negative plus the negative six and then a length of five.
So let's run this query and you can see that it's returns a substring of the films with a length 5 starting
from the six letter from the end.
So you can see here we have runner.
So we started from the sick letter from the end.
So we have all you and your buddies suddenly returned a string of length fives.
So overturn that for a while and so on and so on for every single film.
So that's it for using the substring function in my ass.
You will just remember that we have the substring key word.
And then in brackets we have our string or our column and then we have a comma.
Then we have our starting index and then we have our length.
And remember the string and the starting index are required but the length is optional.
So we only have to stay a string or a column and then one number which will be our starting index.
But if you want to you can also state the length that you want returned.
So now let's move on to the next video.